# PrintrBotSM-SKR-conversion

A compilation of my experience converting my Printrbot Simple Metal to BTT SKR Mini E3 1.2 controller board and companion BTT TFT35 V3.0 Touch Screen Display.

History: This will be a perhaps slowly evolving source of my hardware and software journey with my 3D printer. I am not a hardware nor a software expert. I am a long time computer hobbyist with the Altair S100 computer kit being my first hardware effort, followed by several special-purpose CP/M-based computer systems for commercial sale (DiskMaker from New Generation Systems), then early into the Arduino-based hobby. From a software perspective, I learned BDS-C to support the DiskMaker business and a package of Unix-like utilities for CP/M.  Then a 25 year stint with HP (via its acquisitions) as a Unix sales analyst, software sales and finally server sales analyst.  Since retiring, besides the Arduino-based projects, I have been writing Mac software and a website in Objective-C, Python and Django for a small company.  I think this background is important because I see many folks becoming discouraged jumping into the hardware/software world as a hobby.  It takes time, perseverance in searching out online resources and success/failure experience. Don't be afraid to ask for help on the Facebook groups, StackOverflow or Reddit, to name my best goto resources for help.  BTW, the real genesis of my computer initiation was the assignment as Combat Systems Officer on the 2nd submarine of the Los Angeles class - the first class of submarines to have a central computer. The woman who really kindled my interest as the instructor in my first computer class in the Navy - Captain Grace Hopper.  Enough history.

2020-06-29 I will post the SKR Mini E3 1.2 firmware that worked for me to finally get my Printrbot working again after the ubiquitous USB port failure on my F5 PrintrBoard.  I had to make a couple of changes to Dr Phil's (drphil3d) firmware posted at https://github.com/Printrbot/Adaptrboard. I will post my Marlin configuration files also, as I needed to make a few changes to get the SKR board to work with my printer.  My files started with Dr Phil's and you will see comments on the things I have changed from his.  Disclaimer: I am definitely not saying my configuration files and the resultant compiled firmware are "right".  But the work for now.  I post them in the hope that they will be helpful to some folks who have not had success with Dr Phil's current version.

NOTE: I was fortunate to be able to be in the beta test of the Adaptrboard from Dr Phil, but if you cut and re-crimp the appropriate JST-XH connectors and deal with the leveling probe power and signal interface issues, the firmware should not be dependent on using the Adaptrboard.

Hardware changes: One "hardware" change I ended up having to make was to reverse the Y-Axis stepper motor connection into the Adaptrboard, i.e., turning the plug 180 degrees. The symptoms I had before doing this was that the prints were mirrored backward around the Y-Axis.

My intention is to post the sources (almost all Amazon) for the things I used in this conversion.
